README.md, before:

# Approximate Query Processing
Using PostgreSQL and Python to create approximations of averages on datasets with different distributions.

This readme is a work in progress and any changes can be made as needed to reflect the current state of the project.

# Setup

## To install required packages: 

With python installed (in this example I am using python3), you should be able to use the command `python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt`. If you are using VSCode and are in a venv, you can just do `pip install -r requirements.txt` Doing it the first way will install the packages globally on your computer. The second way keeps it narrowed to the environment using it. You can follow [this link](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/environments) to see how to create a virtual environment in VSCode.

***NOTE: Any packages you add will have to be manually added to the `requirements.txt` file, and you will have to manually invoke it when the file is changed.***


## Testing the connection:
To use the test directory, to test if your python connection is working:
1. [Create a database](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/tutorial-createdb.html) called aqp_database 
2. Run DDL.sql to create the relations
3. Run smallRelationsInsertFile.sql to insert test data
4. Make a user called `python` and with a password `pythonConnection`, or change the username and password in  `test.py`
5. Run the python file `test.py` 

## Running database_operations files:
(*) Before running any of the files in this folder, run the following commands
    1. GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA public TO python
    2. GRANT CREATE ON SCHEMA public TO python

Commit message:

Use .env for database connection

README.md, after:

# Approximate Query Processing
Using PostgreSQL and Python to create approximations of averages on datasets with different distributions.

This readme is a work in progress and any changes can be made as needed to reflect the current state of the project.

# Setup

## To install required packages: 

With python installed (in this example I am using python3), you should be able to use the command `python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt`. If you are using VSCode and are in a venv, you can just do `pip install -r requirements.txt` Doing it the first way will install the packages globally on your computer. The second way keeps it narrowed to the environment using it. You can follow [this link](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/environments) to see how to create a virtual environment in VSCode.

***NOTE: Any packages you add will have to be manually added to the `requirements.txt` file, and you will have to manually invoke it when the file is changed.***


## Testing the connection:
To use the test directory, to test if your python connection is working:
1. [Create a database](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/tutorial-createdb.html) called aqp_database 
2. Run DDL.sql to create the relations
3. Run smallRelationsInsertFile.sql to insert test data
4. Make a user called `python` and with a password `pythonConnection`, or change the username and password in  `test.py`
5. Run the python file `test.py` 

## Running database_operations files:
(*) Ensure that the username and password are correct in `.env`. The default is the username `python` and password `pythonConnection`. If you have a username with that password, no updates are needed. This allows you to update the username and password combination in one place and it will apply everywhere. 
(*) Before running any of the files in this folder, run the following commands
    1. GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA public TO python
    2. GRANT CREATE ON SCHEMA public TO python
